# Obstacle Avoiding Robot

Two fourteen year old kids, in grade 7, decide to build a robot together,specifically an obstacle avoiding robot made with Arduino UNO, but it simply dosen't go to plan, and many imporvisations are done throughout. This was our first time dealing with electrical parts and the journey was harder but more amusing than we anticipiated.

# Parts list
[Arduino Uno](https://docs.arduino.cc/hardware/uno-rev3/)
[Motor Shield L293D](https://www.amazon.com/HiLetgo-Driver-Shield-Compatible-Duemilanove/dp/B01DG61YRM/ref=sr_1_1_sspa?sr=8-1-spons&sp_csd=d2lkZ2V0TmFtZT1zcF9hdGY)
[Ultrasonic Sensor HC-SR04](https://www.amazon.com/AEDIKO-HC-SR04-Ultrasonic-Distance-Arduino/dp/B09BYWHSMJ/ref=sr_1_5?sr=8-5)
[SG90 Servo](https://www.amazon.com/AYWHP-Helicopter-Drones-Robotics-Control/dp/B0DRHYNHKH/ref=sr_1_1_sspa?sr=8-1-spons&sp_csd=d2lkZ2V0TmFtZT1zcF9hdGY)
[3.7V 18650 Rechargeable Battery](https://www.amazon.com/QOJH-18650-Rechargeable-Headlamp-Flashlight/dp/B0D7ZXS6V2/ref=sr_1_7_sspa?sr=8-7-spons&sp_csd=d2lkZ2V0TmFtZT1zcF9tdGY&psc=1)
[Battery Holder](https://www.amazon.com/Battery-Storage-Parallel-Plastic-Batteries/dp/B098DRV5K1/ref=sr_1_4?sr=8-4)

- Chassis is not included as bought from local shop but come with TT Motor, Wheels, and the switch.

# Struggle

My friend comes to my house to make the robot with me, and as we're going through the components, both of us realise we need a few MAJOR components or else we would get 0 progress done whereas we hope we'd get half at the very least. We live in bangladesh, and since I live in mohammedpur, theres a place called townhall where you can get everyting starting from vegetables to lights. We try looking for the parts we needed such as solder, jumper wires, etc but the first 30 minutes were complete failure. We come to the outskirts of the shop and find the last few electronic shops around a corner, we ask an old uncle if he had what we needed or not, but he pointed to a shop that was temporarily closed because the owner went to pray. Without waiting further, we went to the masjid to pray aswell, and after we return, the shop wasn't opened yet, but we saw another shop opening and asked just in case. We had hit the jackspot, the shop had all the main components so the few small things we needed we easily found. We bought solder, jumper wires (female to female), and soldering flux. 

# Building the robot (Part 1)

We were supposed to be done building the chassis of the robot atleast by the time we got home, but we spent nearly 2 hours looking for parts. Our first step would be to solder the wires onto our TT Gear Motors, and heres the surprising part and risky part, it was our first time ever using a soldering iron. We carefully clear out space, plug in the soldering iron, and I get ready in putting the wire while my friend Sidrat holds the iron and the solder as he will do the first motor. We keep the soldering flux near us, and slowly start to solder. It was an exicting but extremely intidimating process as we had 0 experience on doing such a risky job like soldering. As we get a hold of it, the first motor is done and it takes us less than 5 minutes. We test it out by holding the wires to to - and + terminal, and as the motor moves, we jump up with excitement. Soon enough we're done with the second one aswell. We take a small break as we needed to break our fast, but within 10 minutes we get back to work and are done with all four motors. The next process was just us building the chassis, it wasn't anything more than screwing motors onto the board and assembling the board was easy. The problem arose when we realised our Arduino Uno did not fit on the chassis, the alignments were completely off and we had to improvise. We got to the shop we bought the parts from as we were desperae trying to find a way. At the end we decided to use some of the solder wire and tie it to place while we use a foam underneath the arduino while we use double sided tape on the foam to keep that atleast stable. The foam was also less riskier as the UNO had pins underneath. Our improvisation was succesful and the next part was just about inserting wires. We hit a small roadblock where we had to solder our battery holders wire to the switch and then solder another wire on the switch that would enter one of the motor shield's + pin which was next to the GND pin. The soldering was easy and less tedious than the last time we used the soldering iron and we were done in a few minutes. We tested if the the switch works and if the battery holder that had the batteries in worked all together or not. Our faces light up as the components get power.

# Building the robot (Part 2)

We were almost done, the servo and the ultrasonic sensor were left so we decided to take a break and eat dinner. After the break we decided to make use of the glue gun and start putting on the servo along with the ultrasonic sensor on it. To our surprise, the servo spun 360° along with the ultrasonic sensor and the wires all got wrapped around. We turned it off immediately and got to troubleshooting. After a few AI prompts, I decided to recheck the parts I ordered because I heard SG90 Servo's can have continous rotation and 180 degree rotation. I realised instantly that I bought the continous rotation one after seeing the list of the parts I ordered. The progress done was amazing, but at the end we coudn't get it running the same day and realised we needed to order the proper one. The good part of this was we troubleshooted and found out the problem, so it was just a matter of getting the correct part and replacing it.